Sprint January 11th #79

Closed
RichardLitt opened this Issue Jan 10, 2016 · 28 comments

Comments

Projects
None yet
8 participants
@RichardLitt
Member

RichardLitt commented Jan 10, 2016

Sprint January 11

Sprint Goals

TBD

Sprint Discussions

Schedule

Please take notes in a separate pad, if you can, and link it here.

Endeavour Lead Time (PDT - UTC/Z - CET) Pad
apps on ipfs Juan Benet 10:30PDT 18:30Z 19:30CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-jan-11-apps-on-ipfs
infrastructure Lars Gierth 11:00PDT 19:00Z 20:00CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-jan-11-infrastructure

Please add the Agenda to the Pad before the endeavour sprint starts.

Sprint Deliverables

  • Add your tasks below in a comment, that way we only have people listed who are really in the sprint
  • Add links to issues down here. Only add things you can finish this sprint.
@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 11, 2016

Member

I've pushed libp2p to the end of the queue, 21:00Z today, so that me and @jbenet can make it

Member

diasdavid commented Jan 11, 2016

I've pushed libp2p to the end of the queue, 21:00Z today, so that me and @jbenet can make it

@RichardLitt

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@RichardLitt

RichardLitt Jan 11, 2016

Member

@diasdavid Sounds good, thanks for taking the initiative.

Member

RichardLitt commented Jan 11, 2016

@diasdavid Sounds good, thanks for taking the initiative.

@dignifiedquire

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@dignifiedquire

dignifiedquire Jan 11, 2016

Member

@diasdavid does that mean that you and @jbenet are not around for the others before?

Member

dignifiedquire commented Jan 11, 2016

@diasdavid does that mean that you and @jbenet are not around for the others before?

@jbenet

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jbenet

jbenet Jan 11, 2016

Member
Member

jbenet commented Jan 11, 2016

@dignifiedquire

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@dignifiedquire

dignifiedquire Jan 11, 2016

Member

Moved from the Etherpad:

Apps On IPFS

Lead: @dignifiedquire

Participants

Agenda

  • Webui
  • Distributions
  • Station status
  • Github repos ipfs-improve thing
  • Package Managers in general
    • registry-mirror lessons
    • nailing npm and pacman
    • pypi, apt, nix after
  • ipget - solid + packaged (npm, apt, brew, etc)

Notes

Member

dignifiedquire commented Jan 11, 2016

Moved from the Etherpad:

Apps On IPFS

Lead: @dignifiedquire

Participants

Agenda

  • Webui
  • Distributions
  • Station status
  • Github repos ipfs-improve thing
  • Package Managers in general
    • registry-mirror lessons
    • nailing npm and pacman
    • pypi, apt, nix after
  • ipget - solid + packaged (npm, apt, brew, etc)

Notes

@lgierth

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@lgierth

lgierth Jan 11, 2016

Member

Infrastructure

Lead: @lgierth

Participants

Agenda

  • dev040 migration
  • ipv6
  • ansible/provsn
  • more storage
  • multiple ipfs instances to avoid data loss, e.g. restart before files api flush

Notes

  • storage
    • wikipedia is a bit weird to mirror
    • storage in the u.s. would be really useful
    • @whyrusleeping is going to build a massive array at home -- 72TB and hopefully 1Gb/s
  • dev040 migration
    • all the bootstrap/gateway hosts will run both v03x and v04x
      • both instances share the private key
      • either the v03x or v04x instance gets to claim the default ports 4001, 5001, 8080
      • right now it 5 * v03x and 3 * v04x, over time we'll gradually phase out v03x
  • ipv6
    • people have been asking for this for a while ipfs/infrastructure#88
    • bootstrap needs to deal with multiple addresses for the same node (@whyrusleeping)
    • possible addresses per node:
      • /ip4/tcp
      • /ip4/utp
      • /ip6/tcp
      • /ip6/utp
      • /ip6/tcp with fc00::/8 address
      • /ip6/utp with fc00::/8 address
  • ansible
    • all of the big three (chef, puppet, ansible) are really annoying
      • code tends to become a mess if you don't pay really close attention
      • layers of indirection make it hard to test and debug stuff
      • sloooow
    • provsn solves these problems by using plain shell scripts
      • includes file templating and variable inheritance
      • will be published as an independent tools next week or so
      • less than 100 lines of bash at the moment
      • testing with ipfs deployment, will port other stuff too (cjdns, nginx, metrics, pinbot)
Member

lgierth commented Jan 11, 2016

Infrastructure

Lead: @lgierth

Participants

Agenda

  • dev040 migration
  • ipv6
  • ansible/provsn
  • more storage
  • multiple ipfs instances to avoid data loss, e.g. restart before files api flush

Notes

  • storage
    • wikipedia is a bit weird to mirror
    • storage in the u.s. would be really useful
    • @whyrusleeping is going to build a massive array at home -- 72TB and hopefully 1Gb/s
  • dev040 migration
    • all the bootstrap/gateway hosts will run both v03x and v04x
      • both instances share the private key
      • either the v03x or v04x instance gets to claim the default ports 4001, 5001, 8080
      • right now it 5 * v03x and 3 * v04x, over time we'll gradually phase out v03x
  • ipv6
    • people have been asking for this for a while ipfs/infrastructure#88
    • bootstrap needs to deal with multiple addresses for the same node (@whyrusleeping)
    • possible addresses per node:
      • /ip4/tcp
      • /ip4/utp
      • /ip6/tcp
      • /ip6/utp
      • /ip6/tcp with fc00::/8 address
      • /ip6/utp with fc00::/8 address
  • ansible
    • all of the big three (chef, puppet, ansible) are really annoying
      • code tends to become a mess if you don't pay really close attention
      • layers of indirection make it hard to test and debug stuff
      • sloooow
    • provsn solves these problems by using plain shell scripts
      • includes file templating and variable inheritance
      • will be published as an independent tools next week or so
      • less than 100 lines of bash at the moment
      • testing with ipfs deployment, will port other stuff too (cjdns, nginx, metrics, pinbot)
@lgierth

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@lgierth

lgierth Jan 11, 2016

Member

@lgierth TODO

Member

lgierth commented Jan 11, 2016

@lgierth TODO

@whyrusleeping

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@whyrusleeping

whyrusleeping Jan 11, 2016

Member

@whyrusleeping TODO

  • work on ipfs files read hanging when blocks don't exist
  • fix bootstrapping to allow multiple addresses
  • private networks
  • ship 0.3.11
  • merge 0.4.0 into master
Member

whyrusleeping commented Jan 11, 2016

@whyrusleeping TODO

  • work on ipfs files read hanging when blocks don't exist
  • fix bootstrapping to allow multiple addresses
  • private networks
  • ship 0.3.11
  • merge 0.4.0 into master
@jbenet

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jbenet

jbenet Jan 12, 2016

Member

@diasdavid @whyrusleeping reminder post your etherpad's notes here

Member

jbenet commented Jan 12, 2016

@diasdavid @whyrusleeping reminder post your etherpad's notes here

@dignifiedquire

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@dignifiedquire

dignifiedquire Jan 12, 2016

Member

@dignifiedquire TODO

  • PR updated webui for 0.3.11
  • Bug fixes for the webui
  • New deployment setup for the webui
  • Ship distributions
Member

dignifiedquire commented Jan 12, 2016

@dignifiedquire TODO

  • PR updated webui for 0.3.11
  • Bug fixes for the webui
  • New deployment setup for the webui
  • Ship distributions
@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 12, 2016

Member

David Dias TODO

  • js-ipfs
    • js-ipfs (cli + http api)
      • block
        • get
        • put
        • del
        • stat
      • config
        • show (core + cli + tests)
        • replace (core + tests)
      • init
      • CR+M ipfs/js-ipfs#53 (thank you @xicombd for the PR :) )
    • js-ipfs-merkle-dag
    • js-ipfs-repo
    • js-ipfs-data-importing
      • Create a protobuf version of the layouting (similar to what go-ipfs does) (a good test is creating it, adding to the repo and then let go-ipfs use it <- this will be so sweet)
      • Extrapolate learnings and merge them into the spec - ipfs/specs#57
    • bitswap
      • work towards feature parity with go-ipfs first (protobufs style)
    • update project status, make it cleaner to understand (hopefully helping other language implementations) ipfs/js-ipfs#47
  • api documentation
  • libp2p
    • utp
    • interop go-js swarm (with tests -> libp2p-ci)
  • npm on ipfs
    • debug and solve with @whyrusleeping latests issues on files API to get it completely ready
    • update install process with 0.4.0 rc-1
  • specs
  • extra
Member

diasdavid commented Jan 12, 2016

David Dias TODO

  • js-ipfs
    • js-ipfs (cli + http api)
      • block
        • get
        • put
        • del
        • stat
      • config
        • show (core + cli + tests)
        • replace (core + tests)
      • init
      • CR+M ipfs/js-ipfs#53 (thank you @xicombd for the PR :) )
    • js-ipfs-merkle-dag
    • js-ipfs-repo
    • js-ipfs-data-importing
      • Create a protobuf version of the layouting (similar to what go-ipfs does) (a good test is creating it, adding to the repo and then let go-ipfs use it <- this will be so sweet)
      • Extrapolate learnings and merge them into the spec - ipfs/specs#57
    • bitswap
      • work towards feature parity with go-ipfs first (protobufs style)
    • update project status, make it cleaner to understand (hopefully helping other language implementations) ipfs/js-ipfs#47
  • api documentation
  • libp2p
    • utp
    • interop go-js swarm (with tests -> libp2p-ci)
  • npm on ipfs
    • debug and solve with @whyrusleeping latests issues on files API to get it completely ready
    • update install process with 0.4.0 rc-1
  • specs
  • extra
@whyrusleeping

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@whyrusleeping

whyrusleeping Jan 12, 2016

Member

go-ipfs

Lead: @whyrusleeping

Participants

Agenda

You have 30 minutes for this agenda, 5 minutes before the meeting ends, consider moving the remaining items to a github discussion thread so that all the other sprint meetings can start in time.

Notes

TODOS:

Future:

  • IPLD
  • Perf improvements
  • sharding
After sprint meeting is finished, create the respective action items on the Github sprint issue
Member

whyrusleeping commented Jan 12, 2016

go-ipfs

Lead: @whyrusleeping

Participants

Agenda

You have 30 minutes for this agenda, 5 minutes before the meeting ends, consider moving the remaining items to a github discussion thread so that all the other sprint meetings can start in time.

Notes

TODOS:

Future:

  • IPLD
  • Perf improvements
  • sharding
After sprint meeting is finished, create the respective action items on the Github sprint issue
@RichardLitt

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@RichardLitt

RichardLitt Jan 12, 2016

Member

I have added an IPFS Weekly roundup for last week. ipfs/newsletter#12 Feedback due by this time tomorrow.

Member

RichardLitt commented Jan 12, 2016

I have added an IPFS Weekly roundup for last week. ipfs/newsletter#12 Feedback due by this time tomorrow.

@RichardLitt

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@RichardLitt

RichardLitt Jan 12, 2016

Member

TODO

  • Sprint Management
  • Write the weekly roundup
  • IPFS API
    • Split into current functions master branch and expected spec branch.
      • Add a link to the api from the specs repo
    • Add curl commands to all method descriptions
    • Check all responses have maximal entries
      • Log any errors in go-ipfs
    • Standardize formatting for ipfs --help entries, basing on 0.4
    • Open an issue about sharness testing.
    • Open a feature issue about having multiple language implementations for curl requests
    • Hope Get sharness testing working
  • Hope Research PATENTS.md strategies
Member

RichardLitt commented Jan 12, 2016

TODO

  • Sprint Management
  • Write the weekly roundup
  • IPFS API
    • Split into current functions master branch and expected spec branch.
      • Add a link to the api from the specs repo
    • Add curl commands to all method descriptions
    • Check all responses have maximal entries
      • Log any errors in go-ipfs
    • Standardize formatting for ipfs --help entries, basing on 0.4
    • Open an issue about sharness testing.
    • Open a feature issue about having multiple language implementations for curl requests
    • Hope Get sharness testing working
  • Hope Research PATENTS.md strategies
@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 12, 2016

Member

js-ipfs

Lead: @diasdavid

Participants

Agenda

  • js-ipfs update
  • Data Importing
  • The Spec
  • The Implementation
  • State of IPLD (jbenet?)
  • API specs - ipfs/specs#65
  • Core
  • HTTP (weird mix of RPC vs REST)
  • CLI
  • Bitswap
  • ipfs/specs#53
  • Other stuff that can use review
  • ipfs/js-ipfs#42
Member

diasdavid commented Jan 12, 2016

js-ipfs

Lead: @diasdavid

Participants

Agenda

  • js-ipfs update
  • Data Importing
  • The Spec
  • The Implementation
  • State of IPLD (jbenet?)
  • API specs - ipfs/specs#65
  • Core
  • HTTP (weird mix of RPC vs REST)
  • CLI
  • Bitswap
  • ipfs/specs#53
  • Other stuff that can use review
  • ipfs/js-ipfs#42
@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 12, 2016

Member

libp2p

Lead: @diasdavid

Participants

Agenda

  • update
  • js and go libp2p interop
    • (priority) 1st milestone - level up go-libp2p swarm and have tests between both
    • 2nd milestone - Peer Routing interop
    • 3rd milestone - Record Store interop
  • transports
    • utp

You have 30 minutes for this agenda, 5 minutes before the meeting ends, consider moving the remaining items to a github discussion thread so that all the other sprint meetings can start in time.

Notes

https://github.com/nickdesaulniers/node-rtc-peer-connection

Member

diasdavid commented Jan 12, 2016

libp2p

Lead: @diasdavid

Participants

Agenda

  • update
  • js and go libp2p interop
    • (priority) 1st milestone - level up go-libp2p swarm and have tests between both
    • 2nd milestone - Peer Routing interop
    • 3rd milestone - Record Store interop
  • transports
    • utp

You have 30 minutes for this agenda, 5 minutes before the meeting ends, consider moving the remaining items to a github discussion thread so that all the other sprint meetings can start in time.

Notes

https://github.com/nickdesaulniers/node-rtc-peer-connection

@jbenet

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jbenet

jbenet Jan 13, 2016

Member

@jbenet TODO

  • make decisions for IPLD spec
  • dht discussion with other p2p systems
  • discuss uPort, ipld, keychain, and more with chris at ConsenSys
  • review + publish weekly 2
  • distributions site feedback ipfs/distributions#24
  • backlog
  • merge ipfs/go-ipfs#2137 -- windows CI now works. doesn't pass yet though. (⭐️)

(will add more)

Member

jbenet commented Jan 13, 2016

@jbenet TODO

  • make decisions for IPLD spec
  • dht discussion with other p2p systems
  • discuss uPort, ipld, keychain, and more with chris at ConsenSys
  • review + publish weekly 2
  • distributions site feedback ipfs/distributions#24
  • backlog
  • merge ipfs/go-ipfs#2137 -- windows CI now works. doesn't pass yet though. (⭐️)

(will add more)

@jbenet

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jbenet

jbenet Jan 13, 2016

Member

@diasdavid what work do you need from me the most? i know there's some importer/chunker stuff to spec out. what else? what's highest prio?

@whyrusleeping @lgierth same question

Member

jbenet commented Jan 13, 2016

@diasdavid what work do you need from me the most? i know there's some importer/chunker stuff to spec out. what else? what's highest prio?

@whyrusleeping @lgierth same question

@noffle

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@noffle

noffle Jan 13, 2016

Contributor

TODO

Contributor

noffle commented Jan 13, 2016

TODO

@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 13, 2016

Member

@jbenet other than the chunker spec, is getting the exchange spec to a point where it is clear what to do to support both protobufs and IPLD

Member

diasdavid commented Jan 13, 2016

@jbenet other than the chunker spec, is getting the exchange spec to a point where it is clear what to do to support both protobufs and IPLD

@rht

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@rht

rht Jan 15, 2016

  • Add http(s) scheme, e.g. ipget /https/ipfs.com; rht/go-ipfs@2c5eedc (which hashes the file in the intermediate step, but this is not shown)

rht commented Jan 15, 2016

  • Add http(s) scheme, e.g. ipget /https/ipfs.com; rht/go-ipfs@2c5eedc (which hashes the file in the intermediate step, but this is not shown)
@whyrusleeping

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@whyrusleeping

whyrusleeping Jan 18, 2016

Member
  • debug random multistream goroutines...
  • fix ipfs files 'deadlocks'
    • thought we were good, actually not
  • [~] private networks
    • implement 'encrypted transport' thing
  • thin out go-libp2p deps
    • go-net needs to die
  • [~] directory sharding pls
Member

whyrusleeping commented Jan 18, 2016

  • debug random multistream goroutines...
  • fix ipfs files 'deadlocks'
    • thought we were good, actually not
  • [~] private networks
    • implement 'encrypted transport' thing
  • thin out go-libp2p deps
    • go-net needs to die
  • [~] directory sharding pls
@RichardLitt

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@RichardLitt

RichardLitt Jan 18, 2016

Member

This Week

This week I spent a lot of time working on the Weekly roundup contributor code. It's not done, but it is very close, and I had a ton of fun doing it. Now that I am with @diasdavid and @whyrusleeping and @noffle in Svalbard for arcticjs, I hope to make really significant inroads on the API this week in person with them.

  • Sprint Management
  • Write the weekly roundup
  • IPFS API
    • Split into current functions master branch and expected spec branch.
      • Add a link to the api from the specs repo
    • Add curl commands to all method descriptions
    • Check all responses have maximal entries
      • Log any errors in go-ipfs
    • Standardize formatting for ipfs --help entries, basing on 0.4
    • Open an issue about sharness testing.
    • Open a feature issue about having multiple language implementations for curl requests
    • Hope Get sharness testing working
  • Hope Research PATENTS.md strategies
    • Linux Patents DCO - how do they do it? Docker, Git. Is the DCO all you need? Apache. Does GPL have a patents section? CLAHub

Extra

  • CR
  • Closed all open issues and PRs on awesome-ipfs, added note about usable products only. PR awesome-ipfs#40
  • Edited pm templates slightly. PR pm#81
  • Worked on the weekly blog. PR blog#16, blog#17, blog#18
  • Worked on the shutdown notice for go-ipfs. PR go-ipfs#2180
  • Authored IPFS Weekly #2, improved workflow and docs considerable. #2
  • Created tinyletter.com/ipfsweekly.
  • Edited dist descriptions. PR distributions#25
  • Reversed order of blog. PR blog#20
  • Tooling modules:
    • RichardLitt/ignore-github-users for ignoring @greenkeeperio-bot
    • RichardLitt/gh-upstream for going to a GitHub upstream repository
    • RichardLitt/git-remote-upstream-url to get remote upstream url
    • PRed sindresorhus/gh-home adding gh-upstream check
    • Trivial PR to novaugust/top-gh-contribs.
    • RichardLitt/generator-nms as a yeoman generator for node modules using standard
  • Added note to go-ipfs/contribute about squashing commits. https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/compare/feature/squash-note?expand=1
  • Opened ipfs/community#94

    ipfs/api

  • Opened: api#22, api#21, go-ipfs#2190, go-ipfs#2189
  • Added awesome_bot to ipfs/weekly
Member

RichardLitt commented Jan 18, 2016

This Week

This week I spent a lot of time working on the Weekly roundup contributor code. It's not done, but it is very close, and I had a ton of fun doing it. Now that I am with @diasdavid and @whyrusleeping and @noffle in Svalbard for arcticjs, I hope to make really significant inroads on the API this week in person with them.

  • Sprint Management
  • Write the weekly roundup
  • IPFS API
    • Split into current functions master branch and expected spec branch.
      • Add a link to the api from the specs repo
    • Add curl commands to all method descriptions
    • Check all responses have maximal entries
      • Log any errors in go-ipfs
    • Standardize formatting for ipfs --help entries, basing on 0.4
    • Open an issue about sharness testing.
    • Open a feature issue about having multiple language implementations for curl requests
    • Hope Get sharness testing working
  • Hope Research PATENTS.md strategies
    • Linux Patents DCO - how do they do it? Docker, Git. Is the DCO all you need? Apache. Does GPL have a patents section? CLAHub

Extra

  • CR
  • Closed all open issues and PRs on awesome-ipfs, added note about usable products only. PR awesome-ipfs#40
  • Edited pm templates slightly. PR pm#81
  • Worked on the weekly blog. PR blog#16, blog#17, blog#18
  • Worked on the shutdown notice for go-ipfs. PR go-ipfs#2180
  • Authored IPFS Weekly #2, improved workflow and docs considerable. #2
  • Created tinyletter.com/ipfsweekly.
  • Edited dist descriptions. PR distributions#25
  • Reversed order of blog. PR blog#20
  • Tooling modules:
    • RichardLitt/ignore-github-users for ignoring @greenkeeperio-bot
    • RichardLitt/gh-upstream for going to a GitHub upstream repository
    • RichardLitt/git-remote-upstream-url to get remote upstream url
    • PRed sindresorhus/gh-home adding gh-upstream check
    • Trivial PR to novaugust/top-gh-contribs.
    • RichardLitt/generator-nms as a yeoman generator for node modules using standard
  • Added note to go-ipfs/contribute about squashing commits. https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/compare/feature/squash-note?expand=1
  • Opened ipfs/community#94

    ipfs/api

  • Opened: api#22, api#21, go-ipfs#2190, go-ipfs#2189
  • Added awesome_bot to ipfs/weekly
@noffle

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@noffle

noffle Jan 18, 2016

Contributor

Up at ArcticJS with @RichardLitt, @diasdavid, and @whyrusleeping! Lots of ramping up this week, and took on two issues: one merged, one needing another small revision.

Contributor

noffle commented Jan 18, 2016

Up at ArcticJS with @RichardLitt, @diasdavid, and @whyrusleeping! Lots of ramping up this week, and took on two issues: one merged, one needing another small revision.

@diasdavid

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@diasdavid

diasdavid Jan 18, 2016

Member
Member

diasdavid commented Jan 18, 2016

@jbenet

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jbenet

jbenet Jan 18, 2016

Member

@jbenet TODO

Member

jbenet commented Jan 18, 2016

@jbenet TODO

@dignifiedquire

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@dignifiedquire

dignifiedquire Jan 18, 2016

Member

@dignifiedquire Sync Update

Webui

Distributions

Misc

Member

dignifiedquire commented Jan 18, 2016

@dignifiedquire Sync Update

Webui

Distributions

Misc

@lgierth

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@lgierth

lgierth Jan 19, 2016

Member

@lgierth sync update

Member

lgierth commented Jan 19, 2016

@lgierth sync update

Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub. Already have an account? Sign in to comment